Storing HPLC column and guard column
Created 5/30/07 – Nick Zehm
Updated 7/24/07 – Nick Zehm

    Follow protocol for Setting up HPLC System for Sample Injection.doc if it has not already been done the current day.

    Load a HPLC pump program that will prepare the column for storage (See Setting up a HPLC Pump Program.doc)

        Check with Dr. Berry to ensure that the solvent that will be used to store the column is safe for the column to be stored in.

    Run the HPLC pump program to prepare the column for storage

    When program is completed, press Purge key and use the solvent concentration the column will be stored in.

    Remove the connector to the UV from the bottom of the HPLC column while solvent is being pumped.

    While bottom of column is flooded, carefully screw in the column cap and seal it ensuring that No air bubbles enter the column.


If Storing Column and Guard Column Individually

    Remove the HPLC column from guard column connector at the top of the HPLC column while solvent is being pumped.

    Let connector drip solvent onto top of column for flood top

    While top of column is flooded, carefully screw in the column cap and seal it ensuring that No air bubbles enter the column.

    Remove the guard column-HPLC column connector from the bottom of the guard column while solvent is being pumped.

    While bottom of guard column is flooded, carefully screw in the HPLC column cap and seal it ensuring that No air bubbles enter the column.

    Remove the guard column from HPLC Pump connector at the top of the guard column while solvent is being pumped.

    Let connector drip solvent onto top of guard column for flood top.

    While top of column is flooded, carefully screw in the column cap and seal it ensuring that No air bubbles enter the column.


If Storing Column and Guard Column as a unit

    Remove the guard column from HPLC Pump connector at the top of the guard column while solvent is being pumped.

    Let connector drip solvent onto top of guard column for flood top.

    While top of guard column is flooded, carefully screw in the column cap and seal it ensuring that No air bubbles enter the column.
